Hey everyone, I'm John Markiewicz (known on the IRC as EDT,) and I'm
here today to talk to you about window management.

Since this is a lightning talk, I won't be able to cover everything 
in depth about the topic at hand.  I'll answer any questions at the
end of the talk.

So, how many of you here use linux?

Of you, how many either don't know what I mean when I say "desktop
environment," or use the desktop environment that came with your
distro?

So today I'm going to talk about window management, and the tools
surrounding it, but in order to talk about that I first have to
talk about Desktop Environments.  [Cue first photo]  This is KDE-
wait.  This is KDE from back when the K stood for "Kool."  If you
don't believe me, look it up.  It's true.  Anyway...

[Cue next photo] This is KDE, which is a modern desktop environment
using Qt.  It's fairly flashy, and has several fancy compositing
effects.  This means as far as desktop environments go, KDE is very
resource-intensive to run.  On a powerful computer, it looks nice
and feels smooth, but some users don't like to use resources for 
a lot of the eyecandy and features (or bloat) included in a thing
like KDE.

[Cue next photo] This is Cinnamon, which is a desktop environment
originally developed for use in Linux Mint.  It is a fork of GNOME,
and has developed a reputation with many community members as an
improvement on the UI of GNOME.  Cinnamon is a little less resource
heavy than GNOME is, but still has a lot of the features (or bloat)
that some users can't stand.

[Cue next photo] This is Xfce, which is often noted to be a very 
efficient Desktop Environment for low-resource machines.  If you
like the way other desktop environments do things, but don't really
care if you get the flare they tend to do it with, Xfce is a very
good choice and can actually be made to look very nice while taking
a very small amount of resources to run.

[Cue next photo] However, some people want (or need) a more minimal
system, that uses less of their computer.  The graph up on the
projector isn't to scale, but it has names and amount of memory
it uses running.  As you can see, Xfce is lighter than Cinnamon, 
which is lighter than Gnome, which is lighter than KDE.  When 
KDE uses 200MB and something like dwm is using 1MB, there's 
probably something different about a program like dwm.  The dramatic
decrease in memory usage from a desktop environment (even a lighter
one like MATE or LXDE) to a window manager like i3 or openbox can
make a huge difference on lower end computers, and help users with
demanding workloads get the extra bit of power out of their hardware.
Window managers take a bit more work to get running, often don't have
much more than a simple bar if that out of the box, and are less
commonly used than desktop environments, but they have an effect on
workflow of the user and resources available to the computer.

[Cue next photo] This is an example of a themed dwm install.  The 
look of window managers tends to be more minimal and simple than the 
look of their desktop environment counterparts, although either can
be made to look very fancy or very plain.

[Cue next photo] This is openbox with a very customized conky setup.
A properly configured openbox install tends to feel a lot like a
regular DE, thanks in no small part to the graphical menu openbox 
contains.  If anyone here has used Crunchbang, or heard of it, it 
was a distribution that shipped with Openbox by default.

[Cue next photo] This is 2bwm, a fairly new window manager.  It
is stacking, not tiling, which I'll get to here in a second.  By
default, a lot of these window managers come looking pretty boring,
but after a bit of tweaking they really start to look nice and 
still keep most of the minimal resource use they have as compared
to desktop environments.

Now, there are two major kinds of window manager: stacking, also known
as floating, and tiling, also known as managed.  A lot of well-known
window managers are tiling, as this is usually buried if available at
all in desktop environments.  Many window managers allow the use of
either stacking or tiling window management as the user feels is
needed.  These are called dynamic window managers.  Often lighter
window managers will include more customizable and better integrated
keyboard navigation as compared to Desktop Environments.

Overall, what window manager or desktop environment someone uses is
entirely up to them.  Hopefully, though, in the future, you are more
informed about your options 

[Show off personal window management, take questions, generally 
be happy.]
